# Token Issuance

## Issuance Mechanism

-   In December 2013, the Bityuan blockchain was launched, and version 1.0 adopted the POW mining mechanism. In May 2014, Bityuan was upgraded to version 2.0 and transformed to adopt the POS consensus mechanism. In order to adapt to future blockchain applications and ecosystem expansion, after four years of development and testing, on May 17, 2018, the blockchain version 3.0 mainnet was launched, and the token migration of BTY was completed. The initial token in circulation is 300 million, and the smallest unit is 10-8.
-   Before June 20, 2019, the Bityuan mainnet generated a block every 15 seconds, and each block produced 30 BTY, of which 18 BTY were obtained by miners, and the other 12 BTY entered the development fund.
-   After June 20, 2019, the Bityuan mainnet was upgraded, generating a block every 5 seconds, and each block produced 8 BTY, of which 5 BTY were obtained by miners, and the other 3 BTY entered the development fund.

## Development Fund

Bityuan has always been committed to solving blockchain governance issues in an autonomous manner. Community participants jointly formulate the community operating rules, create the Bityuan ecosystem, and build Bityuan into an autonomous and decentralized digital currency. All participants include but are not limited to managers, technicians, promotion personnel, etc., all may receive corresponding BTY rewards for their efforts.

```
Development Fund Address: 1JmFaA6unrCFYEWPGRi7uuXY1KthTJxJEP
```

Currently, the basic allocation ratio of BTY Development Fund is as follows.

-   Fund operation and management expenses: 10%
-   Ecosystem technology development funds: 30%
-   Community promotion incentive funds: 50%
-   Special public welfare investment funds: 10%
