# Community Autonomy DAO

> Bityuan will create a set of on-chain voting contracts, aiming to provide a fair, just and open community development autonomous system. The main roles involved in voting governance include community decision-making organization and all ticket holders (deployment of wallet mining, 3000BTY= 1 ticket), proposal voting requires transferring a certain amount of BTY to the development fund.
> The main functions of the on-chain voting system include the election of community decision-making organization members, the approval of special fund for development fund, and the adjustment of voting system parameters.

### All ticket holders are mainly responsible for:

-   Regularly elect members of the development fund decision-making organization. Every expenditure in the future BTY development fund will first be voted by members of the decision-making organization.
-   For large expenditure projects that have passed the decision-making organization’s votes and enter the public notice period, they have the right to vote against it.
-   Once the vote to adjust the DAO system parameters is passed, the voting judgment will be based on the new parameters.

### The daily expenditures of the development fund are determined by the development fund decision-making organization’s votes. For a certain proposal, the organization must adhere to the following rules.

-   The daily expenditures required by the development fund will first be voted by the members of the development fund decision-making organization. After approval, it will be decided whether a public notice period is required based on the amount of expenditures (system parameters) required for the project.
-   If it is less than or equal to the system amount, there is no need to enter the public notice period. It can be implemented after the decision-making organization votes and passes, and the development fund automatically allocates BTY to the designated address.
-   If it is greater than the system amount, after the decision-making organization votes and passes, it will enter the public notice period. During the public notice period, all ticket holders can vote against the project. When the dissenting votes accumulate to the system parameter indicator, the proposal will be rejected, the development fund will not automatically allocate BTY.
