# Network Type

BitYuan network is a peer-to-peer, decentralized network called P2P networks. P2P network is a decentralized network where there is no central node for the entire network and all nodes in a traditional central network depend on some central node.

Each node in a P2P network participates and shares the storage capacity, broadcast capacity, and network connectivity that it possesses. Nodes in the network can be accessed directly by peer nodes, and each node is both a consumer and a provider of resources and services.

For customers or developers, the types of bityuan network is roughly divided into main, test and private networks.

## Main Network ##

The main network refers to BitYuan's ecological blockchain network, and all transactions are recorded in the chain's distributed ledger.

The main network is at the same time a public network that anyone can access through the Internet network, supporting anyone to query, generate, and verify transactions on that network.

## Test Network ##
BitYuan offers a public test network.

The test network is a network that simulates the BitYuan mainnet ecosystem, supporting developers to test protocols or smart contracts on the test network that have not yet been deployed to the mainnet environment.

## Private Network ##

Users and developers can build their own bityuan nodes, but not connect to the bityuan network (main and test network), which can be called a private network or can become a development network. It is mainly used to develop bityuan applications on this network and to deploy and run them on this network.