# SPOS Consensus
>The consensus module is the module that implements the blockchain consensus mechanism, which is an important component of blockchain technology. The goal of the blockchain consensus mechanism is to enable all honest nodes to preserve a consistent view of the blockchain. In layman's terms, the consensus mechanism plays a role in deciding who is responsible for generating new blocks and maintaining the unity of the blockchain within the blockchain network. BitYuan uses an innovative SPOS consensus, the **Safe POS** consensus mechanism.

The innovation and application of SPOS are mainly in two aspects.    
- POS consensus is achieved through the Ticket ballot mechanism.
- Generate fair random numbers during block generation.  

## Achieving consensus through ballot mechanisms

BitYuan implements the secure mining logic of **POS** through **Ticket**. Users use the balance of **BTY** in their wallet accounts to purchase tickets and obtain mining rights (currently 3000 BTY corresponds to 1 ticket), one ticket corresponds to a unique **Ticket ID**; each block will only be mined by one ticket, and the actual mining odds are equally divided among the tickets (if there are N tickets in the whole network, the odds of each ticket being mined are 1/N).

The ballot mining process is shown below:  
1. Periodically check the BTY balance in your wallet to purchase tickets, and when the purchase conditions are met, construct a ticket purchase transaction and send it to the blockchain.    
2. SPOS consensus will always try to use locally held tickets to pack blocks. Once the packing is successful, it means that the corresponding Ticket holder is successful in mining and gets the corresponding block reward.  
3. The smart contract will write the Ticket information corresponding to the address to the blockchain database, and each Ticket corresponds to a unique Ticket ID, and there will also be a data record in the database.  
  
<font color=red>Note: </font>Malicious nodes that attempt to fork BitYuan, or any malicious behavior that the system can detect, may be penalized with a 20% loss of assets per penalty. Mining must be done with standard wallets published by the BitYuan Foundation, and tampering with mining behavior that is automatically determined to be malicious by the system can result in significant losses to miners.

SPOS consensus features:   
- Compared with POW, POC and other consensus mechanisms eliminate unnecessary resource waste in the consensus process, such as storage waste, arithmetic waste, etc.   
- The smart contract performs 1/N ballot logic to ensure a fair and equitable block out.   
- The penalty mechanism is designed to ensure the positive operation of miners and the safety of the main network operation.

## Generate fair random numbers in the block generation process

In application scenarios such as games, a random number that cannot be predicted is needed on the blockchain to ensure fairness and equity in order to reflect fairness. Similarly, BitYuan is able to generate a fair random number during block generation to guarantee the security of random number calls for on-chain applications.

The current blockchain has the following solutions.  
1. Invocation of an external centralized random number generator in the contract to obtain random numbers.  
2. Use some value in the block hash as a random number.

But both options have very obvious drawbacks. 
1. If the contract reads data from outside, it is very likely to get different results (for example, the network causes some nodes to read properly and some to return errors), which will lead to forking.    
2. The hash of a block can be controlled, leading to the random number being controlled. Since some blockchain systems do not provide good random number algorithms, many DApp developers will package their own random number algorithms that they think are perfect, resulting in random numbers being predicted.

To address the above two drawbacks, BitYuan implements the optimization of random number generation: BitYuan introduces VRF (Verifiable Random Functions) verifiable random function logic on top of the original random numbers, which makes the randomness further enhanced.    

### Implementation logic of random number generation

1. Users purchase tickets by using the BTY in their wallet account. 3000 BTY corresponds to one ticket.   
The wallet will generate a **randNum**, hashed and then combined with the private key of the wallet mining address, the ticket corresponding to the **index** (you can buy more than one ticket at a time) and other elements to do two more hashes to get a public hash parameter **pubHash**: pubHash=hash(hash(privateKey:index:hash (randNum))).

2. Newly purchased tickets contain pubHash and randNum and are deposited into the blockchain. Tickets require a 12-hour maturation period, after which they can participate in mining.
3. The consensus algorithm finds already mature Tickets from the blockchain and starts packaging them.  
Since the consensus packing block operation is only performed locally at the node, it can read the locally stored private key, compute a private hash (privHash) and put it into the mining transaction: privHash = hash(privateKey:index:hash(randNum))    
4. The smart contract receives the mining transaction and compares the values of hash(privHash) and pubHash, and the two agree that the mining transaction is successful and the corresponding node gets the mining reward, otherwise the execution of the mining transaction fails.

**Key Terms**

VRF: Verifiable Random Functions    
  
SK, PK: The public-private key pair used in the VRF, SK is the private key, PK is the public key

M: Input Data

R: VRF Output Hash

P: VRF Certification

Prover: The certifier, who has the public and private keys of the VRF (PK and SK)

Verifier: The authenticator, who has the public key (PK) in the VRF

**Function Groups**

Four functions are included in generating random numbers, which are mainly divided into two categories: generating functions and validating functions.

Generating Functions:

R=VRF_Hash(SK,M)

P=VRF_Proof(SK,M)

Validating Functions:

R=VRF_P2H§

VRF_Verify(PK,M,P)

**VRF Usage Process**  
  
1. The provers generate a pair of keys (PK and SK).    
  
2. The provers calculate R and P (R = VRF_Hash(SK, M), P = VRF_Proof(SK, M)). 

3. The prover submits R, P, PK, M to the verifier.

4. Verifier calculates that satisfies VRF_P2H(P) = R and VRF_Verify(PK, M, P) = True  
If the conditions are met, the verification is passed, otherwise the verification is not passed.

**BTY process for implementing randomness using VRF**
  
1. SK corresponds to the private key of the mining node account, PK corresponds to the public key of the mining node account.  
 
2. At that height of the BitYuan upgrade fork in 2019, the mining node first reads the privHash stored in the previous block as the input M value and calculates the values of R and P, respectively, through the VRF generation function.

3. The mining node writes R and P to the mining transaction, packs them into blocks and broadcasts them.

4. All nodes receive the block and verify the correctness by the VRF verification function in the smart contract.
If VRF_P2H(P) = R and VRF_Verify(PK, M, P) = True, the verification passes, otherwise the verification fails.

5. For further blocks, the R stored in the previous block is read as input M to calculate R and P.

It can be seen that the random numbers introduced in the current block all need to depend on the random value R of the previous block, the random value is less easily controlled and the randomness is greatly enhanced.Thus, the implementation of SPOS consensus combines random number. Since it is generally impossible to predict the consensus information of other nodes, it is also impossible to obtain its consensus random number. And the system sets the private hash (privHash) cannot be leaked in advance, even if a malicious miner exposes himself in advance, its corresponding ticket will be invalidated, while the principal will be frozen for a longer period of time (more than 2 days). In addition, the system sets a 12-hour maturity period before the ticket can be involved in mining, and the introduction of VRF verifiable random function implementation in the consensus logic, the random value of each block depends on the random number R of the previous block, and the randomness is further enhanced.

The combination of these conditions makes the system's random number almost impossible to manipulate. Thus, when a developer implements a DApp that requires fair randomness, it can directly use this safe random number provided by the system.
